---
layout: post
title: ROScon 2017
author: David Crawley
---

Ubiquity Robotics is committed to open source software. Practically 
all the software on our robot is open source, and we regularly share 
with the broader robotics community open source software that we have 
developed. Perhaps the most important piece of open source software 
that we leverage is The Robot Operating System (ROS). 

ROS is the framework that enables us to connect different parts of 
the robot hardware and software together. It uses a publish and 
subscribe model to pass messages between different nodes on the robot 
system. Those nodes may enable a specific hardware functionality, e.g. 
our motor control node, or our, now famous raspberry pi camera node), 
or they may enable a specific type of analysis of our data within the 
robot e.g. a face detection node. ROS also comes with a set of robot-
specific functionality that enables things like mapping, 
visualization, and even navigation. 

ROS is maintained by the open source robotics foundation (OSRF) and 
each year they hold a conference where roboticists can discuss the 
latest developments in robotics in the context of the ROS framework. 

So I packed a Magni in to carry on luggage. Despite its 100Kg payload 
carrying capacity it can fit - partly disassembled in to carry on. 
Then I flew to Vancouver where ROScon 2017 was held.

ROScon describes many of the latest advances in ROS based robotics. 
Projects both sophisticated and not are described there, and being 
there is one of the ways in which we both contribute to the community
and learn from it. 

I am sure we will be back in future years!
